# Infosec Practices
- Privacy: Safeguarding data and protecting a personal image. It's about protecting on behalf of people instead of organizations.
- Infosec: Defending information: Preventing unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, inspection, recording and/or destruction of information. This is more broad and can be applied to the processes organizations.
- Cryptography: Enables secure information transactions between the intended recipient and intended sender

## What is Infosec
We want to protect our knowledge as it is our competitive advantage.

Ways of safeguarding information and knowledge:
- Compartmentalization
- Physical barriers/protection
- Legal protection
- Encryption

## Changing Information Securiy Threat Landscape
### What Are: Assets, Threats, Vulnerability, Risk
- Assets: Something of value, such as intellectual properties, products, money
  - How can you protect what's in your company?
    - Find which assets get the most return to the company
- Threats: Something that has the potential to compromise your assets
- Vulnerability: The weakest links, the few things that can help compromise our assets
  - We are the weakest links.
  - A threat agent can threaten our assets through vulnerability
- Risk: Something that can go wrong.
  - Risks can be opportunities or risks
  - Risks can be measured by the probability of the risk happening, and the impact of the risk happening. This places the priority of the risk
- Asset + Threat + Vulnerability = Risk

### What to do with them?

x | Citizens/Consumers | Businessess | Governments and Nations
-|-|-|-
Asset | Knowledge, personal information. It's not always malicious, but it can be. | 
Threat | Personal security, malicious information retrieval,  | 
Vulnerability |  Poor opsec, complacency, ego, password protection, non-encrypted information, lack of knowledge |
Risk | Loss of privacy, human capability no longer available | Lack of security process, poor internal security policies and culture

check slides 

### Threats to Infosec

Categories | Examples
-|-
Acts of human error or failure | Accidents, employee mistakes. Human error is all about mistakes in putting in information
Compromises to intellectual property | Piracy, copyright infringement. Property or works which are intangible and requires legal protection. It's your responsibility to put the copyright on things. 
Deliberate acts of espionage or tresspass | Hiring someone from the competitor to leak trade secrets, unauthorized access and/or data collection, grey/black hat and shoulder surfing, competitive or industrial espionage
Deliberate acts of information retrieval and extortion |  Steals information and demands money or compensation for its return or nondisclosue
Deliberate acts of sabotage or vandalism | Political, protests, hacktivists, nation state hackers. 
Deliberate acts of theft | Compromising information and stealing resources, trade secrets, physical theft, or intellectual property
Deliberate software attacks | Malicious attacks, such as viruses, worms, backdoors, etc
Forces of nature | Uncontrollable events and natural disasters
Deviation of service | Internet service, communications, and power irregularities
Hardware Failure | Hardware screws up and shit
Software Failure | Software commits suicide
Techincal obsolenscence | Old stuff

### Modern Day Cybercriminals
- People like you and me
- Their motives:
    - White
    - Grey
    - Black

## Infosec Protocols
- Information security risk managemenet
- Information security policy
- Infosec strategy
- Infosec education, training and awareness (SETA)

### Risk Management Process
- Risk identification
- Riska assessment
- Risk response
- Risk review and control

### Infosec Policies
Policies: Password requirements, legal requirements, set of rules and standards imposed by some sort of authority 

### Infosec Strategy
- Prescriptive: Plan ahead. Involves decision making about a future course of action
- Strategy is multi-faceted and incorporates tradeoffs
- SETA: Security Education, Training and Awareness.
    - Foster a culture of security
    - Influence the security behaviors of employees
    - Draws its aims and objectives from security policy and security strategy
    - Once an organization has conducted a comprehensive security risk assessment, a critical aspect of crafting the risk mitigation strategy is to determine how to use SETA to complement formal controls and technical controls.


## The Bigger Picture
- Infosec threats
- Infosec controls
    - Risk
    - Policy
    - Strategy
    - SETA