# Security Audit - Continued
- Remember that the data is valuable to you. 
  - Dollar vs data
- Value of privacy, as provided by security, on society and particularly commerce
- Australian Privacy Principals - Overview
  - Should go back and refer to this as a framework to think about implications of privacy 
- Extra privacy and security steps

Balance of power between the rights of citizens and the state. So is it out of balance in Australia?

## Dollar vs Data Experiment
- How much is your personal private information worth?
- How much is your personal data worth? It's actually pretty god damn worthless.
  - At least in the commercial basis
  - ft.com has metrics that can estimate how much it's worth
  - Your information has value, and it's perfectly legal to have it. But it is fucking cheap.
  - Packages of data are more important if it has very identifiable data 
  - If you're running a surgeon business, that information in your database is really valuable
- Name a piece of information about you that is actually online and is valuable
  - How could the information be valuable to others? Who do you think can use that information?

## Customer privacy and security: Issues for business
- People want to feel their data is secure
- But it may be too clunky for the average user, which put them off.
- Integrity of the company harvesitng the data and using it versus the integrity or protection of that daat from others
- It's important not only to protect the data, but also the integrity of how the data is harvested
- The "yuck factor" 
  - Example: "to: daughter killed in car crash or current business"
- Even though data is kept appropriate, is it secure enough for privacy?
  - It's not necessarily that privacy is worse, but the amount of times that it happens is what matters
  - It's also more important to conceive just how much the users actually care about it.
- One US research shows that 
  - 45% of Americans have some kind of worry for their privacy
  - Was on the week that data breaches on Target happened
  - This is powerful with a good sample base of 41000 people
  - This quantifies in the public mind how impiortant infosec is for people 
  - 19 percent of internet using households reported beiung impacted by an online security breach, identity theft or similar malicious activity during the 12 months before the survey
  - 22$ of households that uses mobile data plans experience online secuirty breach
  - With more devices in a household, there will be more breaches
- Perhaps the most direct threat to maintain consumer trust is negative personal experience. Security breaches appear to be more common among the most intensive internet using households.
- If you are in a working environment and when you need some data, just ask your employees how many devices they ahve
- check slides for more graphs
- EQUIFAX memes
  - Known bug, trivial to exploit: Reporting of string of attacks in March. Open Source Project had patched vulnerability, but never been patched
  - Attackers are already aware of it, and even have the exploits publicly available
  - Lag of telling people about the privacy breach is a big financial and PR fuckup. 
  - The casualty is the public interest because privacy is a public good
  - This is a good justification to keep upgrading security.

### Trade offs between privacy and security and convenience 
***What customers say in the commercial world***

- McKinsey - auditing comapany
- 30 percent prioritize case and convenience over security
- Want basic level operating behind the scenes but say 'having access to account information without the need to enter a password is attractive or very attractive'
- People hate OTPs
- Login credeintials should be the same - SSO

### So how do you get this
- Better UX matters
- Inconsistent design, poor error messaging, clunky communications, site slowness or unavailability makes it less ppealing to the end usser to accept security
- Privacy policy: A company's privacy policy describes how it gathers, uses, discloses and manages a consumer's information

## Australian Privacy Principles
- Australian Information Commissioner Act
- The current government has been extremely annoyed with privacy, as it allows them to do less than what they want
- They get in the way of poltiical realities
- Privacy functions
  - Privacy functions
  - Freedom of information 
  - Government information policy functions
- Austaerlian Privacy Principles outline how most Australiann, private, non for profit, private health services and small businesses should handle, use and manage personal information
  - Small business should consider how it applies to their own sectors
- check slides
- APPs are non prescriptive
  - Stringent information has stricter law

## Why Security Audits then
- Security of people's communication is very imprtant to me - Snowden
- urged people to use PGP so that they can communicate things 
