# Week 10 Guest Lecture
*Barry Anderson (AGL, Security Solutions), Peter Tinali (Unimelb, System Architect Project Management), Emily Tenali*

## Industry Perspectives of Infosec
- In those early days of the internet, there's nothing of sort of what we face these days in the internet. 
- You can't excel in Infosec without breaking things
- As a society we are dictated to conform, but people who don't conform are usually in the top bound. 
- You need to think how the adversity thinks
- The uni may actually have more data than companies like AGL - the IP and the security implications are bigger
- Check LMS: Accuracy of identifying faces in facial recognition
  - The Unimelb plate number recognition isn't working well here, how can we deal with faces?
  - ...it's actually already common in service stations and city parking stops
- What do these people do every day?
  - Barry
    - AGL is rebuilting infosec capability. They outsource to the point they have no idea what's going on with it
    - It's cyclic - people who drag things back in aren't in the cost problem but just want to get things in, and when it's getting expensive they outsource again
    - You can just get things from your internal company, people just don't choose it
    - Security architects get things that fit with the organization 
    - Current work: Endpoint protection and forensic capabilities
    - On the fly troubleshooting and SAD of threats
  - Peter
    - Worked for 20 years at unimelb
    - Universities are meant to be open. Biggest challenge is to make systems secure but allow people to break and try things.
    - Ethics come into play with the amount of data they have. 
    - Unis don't work as silos, they work with other people. Architectures can't be designed x or y.
    - Data likes to be copied, breached, and freed. So their job is to assist finding a system that can be computerized and deals with complexities of data and what they represent, and the access of this data.
    - Dealing with politics isn't a computer thing, and academics has a mindset that they need to do things their way
      - If we follow university policies, academics are disadvantaged
- Privacy risk is security
  - Confidentiality is privacy in the CIA trio
  - What they really want is your private information
  - IT Security is not just saying "no." It should empower people to protect their privacy.
  - You also want people to get shit done
- It's party that if you look at IT as a whole, it's a department where people have to jump through to get things done.
  - People don't give a shit. If you stop people from getting things done, they will bypass you.
  - Very few people consider the difference of what they want and what they need
  - If we don't provide a path of least resistance, people find another way.
  - We need to make things easy for people to use, otherwise infosec fights the user
- Data sovereignity
  - Equifax is always a nice example
  - 143m US citizens and 40m UK citizens, among others
  - If you go for a job, the reference service is actually provided by Equifax by another name
  - How do you know when you lose people's information?
  - Equifax has so much data going out and no means of actually detecting what went wrong
  - SCUDA: Subset of industrial control system, controlling things on industrial systems, controlling systems on quasi-isolated networks. This is something you need to protect, but there are strict regulatory requirements to protect the data
  - Data sovereignity is faced everyday, but we don't necessarily find it important
  - According to the US government, they can have any data of any US company from data they store anywhere in the world.
  - Echelon: Agreement between CN, US, UK, AU, NZ that circumvents spy agencies from spying on their own citizens but get others to spy on them.
    - Now it's the Five Guys
    - We're still letting the US play
  - When the NBN was designed, it must not use any Huawei equipment, as there may be backdoors
- The allegation of leaks to Russian authorities
  - Software just randomly updates, and the next day a backdoor is open
  - Anybody who used antivirus programs, when you install them, it asks you to send stuff. The idea is this is how AV vendors find out about stuff out there. Without uploading this, your AV won't improve.
- How much political influence is there in infosec?
  - If you look recently, the senior guys at kaspersky is arrested by the Russian Government, following people in the intelligence that talked to the FBI. The government isn't fond of Kaspersky. 
  - Trump wanted to return the spying compounds to the Russians and try to piss them off.
  - Most of the stuff leaked it's been out there for quite a while back. 
  - Even is Kaspersky isn't being bad, the US goverment will think that they have too much power. 
  - AV companies are the ones who call out intel operations, because it will be them who find the tools in customer networks
  - You can't protect people without having insight of what's going on
  - Unlike US AV vendors, Kaspersky isn't willing to shake hands with the US government
  - Congress takes so much money from lobbyists, who knows why the decisionn is made, and it's really just money.
  - You can get trade wars over software
  - Software is intangible, so it's hard to restrict people from using software
    - e.g. the crypto wars
    - PGP was first printed to Australia as a fucking book
    - That was the only way to get PGP out of the US 
  - Restrictions on exports of information is always a pain in the ass for years 
    - Legislations make it really hard for people to write legit crypto software
    - The words are considered as munitions in technology
  - There's a giant door in the US legislation that protects people doing research in university and open source
  - These protections aren't in the Australian legislation, so it became more draconian
- Is the Kaspersky incident and the war of AV companies an opportunity for open source
  - When you look at crypto legislation, if you cans see everything you transfer, you can still know what you're doing online.
  - There's two legislations for crypto: Give us a backdoor or a way to break at the endpoint
  - Open source becomes the savior, but it comes back to inertia. People follow inertia rather than trying to get something kinky to run
  - e.g. switching to GNU Linux from Microsoft
  - Day do day we don't give a shit - what degree of convenience you are willing to give up
  - T R A D E O F F S 
  - Everything comes down to "TO WHAT EXTENT"
- Are we reaching an Infosec cold war?
  - We are here.
  - There's a video of a generator blowing itself up after being hacked by pulling the failsafe.
  - The Iranian nuclear program was fucked to a way that it's their inexperience in the way. 
    - They use sophisticated software that went in through a network and directly talk to systems that drives the centrifuges
    - They destabilize the centrifuge, but also took care of the reporting to make it look right
    - And it's been years since it happened
- Has Australia respected SCADA more?
  - We have proxy wars waged this way
  - There is an advance of system threats
  - We are just more reliant for this stuff. People are lazy and naturally going to easier ways. 
  - influence: how you operate ethically and defend against unethical use of influence. The six things, people will respond in predictable ways.
    - That's how we get through the day. What we can characterize is just human beings being human beings
  - Senior management in security work has psychology majors
- How about jobs in SCADA?
  - Generally well paid
  - Infosec will have more demand as things heat up
  - There is a shortfall of this. Folks who can deal with SCADA are better compensated than professionals who don't give a shit
  - It's more about what happens in terms of what stakes you have. If a mistake means 3 million people lose power, it brings an interest of its own
  - In reality, people will opt for convenience. So while you may have a protocol barrier, there's no longer an air gap. 
    - BadUSB and BadBIOS
  - Zooko's Triangle: Tradeoff of decentralization, security and usability
- Wifi Pineapple
  - ARM based computer that has a couple of interfaces that has capability of wifi network auditing and interception
  - Do deauth attacks, listen for probes from people's devices and capture them to build a malicious network or even track where people go. 
  - It's really easy to get right up in somebody's business
  - wigle.net: Network database
  - It's fucking quick, seriously.
  - Even with MAC address randomization, they keep the OUI
  - Low effort, just sit there and sniff.
- Human beings follow a similar activity during the day, following the same pattern. To gather intel, this sort of info is nice and easy.
- If we have enough metadata, we don't need the data. We kill people from metadata.
- A signature strike is through metadata signatures. You get Hellfire missiles up your ass from your DNS.
- Datacenters have people sharing smaller IP address spaces. Basically, one of the sites that got blocked blocks everything. 
- DNS doesn't secure anything, it's plaintext
- The Vault 7 and Shadow Brokers story.
  - If you look at the timing of what happened and you start inferring some stuff, you can draw interesting conclusions on who they may have been
  - It's not directly Russians, but it doesn't mean that they're not Russian affiliated
  - If you look at the whole legend, they just leak things and dump it. The people who stole and leak the stuff are probably assigned
  - Who likes dumping stuff for targeted effect? It's almost to show dollars and spotlight
  - Some of the attack kits left should not have been on servers
  - NoBus: nobody but us.
    - Even our allies can't see it, only the US does
    - When you talk about means and bugs in software, the idea of only your guys will find the bugs is delusional
    - If you look at the Obama exception, that's everything the NSA does
      - Disclosure of vulnerabilities
      - If there is a clear intelligence need, they can be excepted
      - In that exception, you don't have to disclose anything at all, making it pointless
      - The flipside is, with Eternal Blue, when the NSA knew what was coming, it's almost certain NSA reached out to Microsoft and told them to patch their shit.
      - Only 91 days later it's exploited by WannaCry
      - The NSA and CIA knows already
      - Equifax is a classic example of being able to fuck up everything, ever
- Why do organizations run old software?
  - Only certain environments are certified for it, or equipments will no longer support it
  - Also money
  - People run things and expect them to run for years above the service contract
  - While it's hard to blame institutions, questions must be asked of the manufacturer where people sweetspot profit on them by going minimal effort vs projected expectation of lifetime of use 
  - People have to buy new shit. At what point can organizations be forced to replace things.
  - Organizations make the tradeoff called where can I spend money for maximum effect. If there is not a perceived risk, they will not spend money there
  - People will only do something when shit hits the fan
- CA and SSL breaking
  - It's important to realize you don't know your root CAs
  - If you work for an organization and evenif it's your machine, if you use BYOD or free wifi, you have an MBM setup which applies restrictions to your machine. But it will also install a certificate. That certificate is typically an intermediary that can sign certificates as anything else.
  - Organizations do this all the time, and intelligence services do it (but get caught up when people audit the CA)
  - Every government ask as it sees fit
  - You can't set up constraint of how power can be used. Once it's out there, it's out there.
  - What can these be misused for? What powers does it give that we won't have any control over?
  - It's over once Pandora's Box is open
- OTP-even if I steal your credentials, I can't pretend to be you
  - At each auth, you require additional factor that you can't steal. Depending on form of OTP, you can MITM the OTP.
  - Once criminals do it, you know the capabilities has been around forever.
  