# Revision
## Preparation Questions
- Relationship between Infosec, privacy and cryptography 
  - Make sure you understand the linkbetween the three topics. Understand the definitions, show how constructs relate with one another. 
  - Put things together - mind map it if you need it
- The What, why, when, who, where
  - Why is infosec and privacy is important
  - What does it encompass/'
  - What are we trying to protect and how?
  - What are the threats out there and how are they classified
  - Where did they come from? What can be done about them? What happens if we ignore them?
  - Are the groupings really vital? Is it the same group of threats? Has it changed? What are the new infosec threat buzzwords
  - Think about what it actually means in our daily lives. 
- Think about risks
  - Risks are inherent in every single workshop topic
  - Why does risk play such a big role in infosec discussion? What are the risks and how do we manage them
  - Risks are inherent. Try and get a grip of what it means and what it is that makes it so important in infosec
- What are organizations doing wrong? 
  - What are they doing right?
  - Why is it more important now than it was back then? Is it actually more important, or inherently more important?
  - Strategies that organizations can use to protect important information they need
  - Are we in the need of getting new strategies? 
- Contemporary topics
  - Knowledge leakage
    - It's becoming more interesting these days to everyone because it costs a lot of money. How is this different from data leakage and information leakage
    - Is it the same these days? 
  - Every definition we talk about, try to relate it to our workshops if it's not clear enough just yet.
- In the exams, the questions are very specific. To answer quickly, make sure something's on your mind. These are small questions that you need to come up with a solution fairly quickly, and just move on. Don't really reflect, just be able to get to a solution.
- Australian Privacy Principles matter
  - You'll need it to apply them in your jobs
  - Read this shit motherfucker holy shit, it may even come out on the exam
  - They have legal relevance, but also provide a guide for organizations which cgather or store data on their customers
  - There's an 11 page factsheet, read that shit motherfucker 
- IT Security audit
  - Includes research and knowing the different solutions available to security problems, and their strengths and weaknesses 
- IT Security breach case
  - Excellent case studies for understanding what has or can happen and go wrong
  - Get familiar and get to know how they can be prevented
- Metadata 
  - Few IT byproducts affect security and privacy as much 
  - Be sure you understand the social and legal matters around metadata 
- US and Five Eyes digital surveillance
  - More widespread than we think
  - Be sure you can dimension the nature and scope of the privacy intrusions
- Be sure you can explain why privacy is important
- Understand the barriers to IT anonymity. 

## Encryption Revisited
- Fuck, TPM RSA attacks is now a thing 
  - All you need to get this is just the fucking public key 
  - What if this is a a planted vulnerability?
  - No obvious sign on the outside
- you learnt something this semester
  - nice 
- Efficient computation vs thicker keys 
  - "equivalent security for efficiency"

## Exam Reminders and Sample
- Thee parts: Infosec, privacy, cryptography
- There will be MCA 
- `W h o  c a n  s a y  w h e r e  t h e  r o a d  g o e s  w h e r e  t h e  d a y  f l o w s  o n l y  t i m e`
- Don't answer more than needed 
- Exam looks ad verbatim

# Panel: Maths are nice but Australain law...

















