# Prelude
- Infosec: Practice of preventing unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, inspection, recording or destruction of information.
- Security goals may include: COnfidentiality, integrity. availability (CIA), privacy, authenticity and trustworthiness, non-repudiation, accountability and auditability.
- Knowledge depends on the person. It's something intrinsic.
    - Not everyone can be knowledgeable about everything
- Knowledge: Information in memory with understanding of what it implies
- Infosec relates more to businesses and organizations, privacy would go more into consumers and personalities
    - Non-repudiation: Make it so that someone can't deny they've done something.
- Privacy: Ability of an individual or a group to seculde information about themselves to express themselves selectively.
- The boundaries and content of what is considered private differ among individual consumers/users
    - The most important factor of why we care about privacy is their ***image control.***
    - Of course there are other definitions of what people consider their priority in privacy
    - Privacy is also culturally dictated
- Privacy partially overlaps security
- Cryptography: Transforms usable information into a form that is unusable by anyone other than the people who has to read it. 
- Next week's group presentation material 
    - What are the key points of the article
    - Based on the discussions...
        - Do you agree or disagree with the key points made? Why/why not?
        - Are the security issues addressed controversial or possibly sparking a debate in society? What do you think is the reason?
    - Presentations should give points for and against the material given
- Next week facilitation discussion
    - Prepared answer to questions, including the group presenitng and group facilitating
        - Make sure questions prepared by all 
        - Different points of view analyzed
        - Time is properly managed
        - Everyone has their chance to voice their opinion
        - Ask probing questions
